# UnionFind

<span class="center-menu">[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=se_Ty3xSSSw&t=270s)</span>

| Algorithm                            | Find        | Union       |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------- | ----------- |
| quick-find                           | $O(1)$      | $O(n)$      |
| quick-union                          | $O(n)$      | $O(n)$      |
| weighted-union                       | $O(\log n)$ | $O(\log n)$ |
| path compression                     | $O(\log n)$ | $O(\log n)$            |
| weighted-union with path compression |  $\alpha(m,n)$           | $\alpha(m,n)$            |
## Dynamic Connectivity

Given a set of objects:

- Union: connect two objects
- Find: is there a path connecting the two objects?

visit [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=12)

## Quick Find

This is a data structure using an array where each elements stores the <u>component identifier</u>. Two objects are connected if they have the same component identifier. [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=18). 

- `find(p, q)`: Checking if `p` and `q` share the same component id. $O(1)$.
- `union(p, q)` : If $I_{p}$ and $I_{q}$ is the parent of `p` and `q`, literate through objects with $I_{q}$ and change and update the id to $I_{p}$. [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=23). $O(n)$
## Quick Union

Quick Union uses a a array where each elements stores the <u>parent</u>. Two objects are connected if they are part of the same tree. [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=34).

- `find(p, q)`: Walk up the parent of both `p` and `q`. Check if their final parent are equal.  $O(n)$.
- `union(p, q)` : Walk up the parent of both `p` and `q`. If $P_{p},P_{q}$ are the final parent of `p` and `q`, update the parent of $P_{p}$ to $P_{q}$ . $O(n)$.
## Weighted Union

Weighted Union is a augmented version quick union where each object stores its size (weight inclusive). [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=65). Union links smaller tree to the larger one. Resulting in maximum depth: $O(\log n)$. Explanation [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=83)

- `find(p, q)`: Walk up the parent of both `p` and `q`. Check if their final parent are equal.  $O(\log n)$ because the height is at most $\log n$.
- `union(p, q)` : Walk up the parent of both `p` and `q`. Link the smaller set to the larger set. [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=64). $O(\log n)$ .

## Path Compression

The final optimization adds path compression. After each time the root is found, every node on the path is linked to the root. Both union and find take $O(\alpha(m,n))$ amortized time each for $m$ operations, and $\log(n)$ in the worst case.. Visit [PDF](CS2040_13.UnionFind.pdf#page=97)

