# Welcome to Archive

This is my digital garden where I archive everything I learn during my time in NUS.

My computer science journey:

<span class="center-menu">[Year 1 Semester 1](Year%201%20Semester%201/Year%201%20Semester%201.md)<br>[Year 1 Semester 2](Year%201%20Semester%202/Year%201%20Semester%202.md)

</span>

## Before you adventure

Please note that this website was generated by converting Obsidian markdown files into [Obsidian-MkDocs style](https://github.com/jobindjohn/obsidian-publish-mkdocs), which means that some styles may not be accurate or visually consistent; for any files that are not viewable on the website (e.g `.java`), please feel free to check out my [Github page](https://github.com/iyioon/iyioon-notes/tree/main/docs) and post problems/improvements.

## If you are interested

**How do I organize my notes?**

I organize my notes by creating a dedicated folder for each module, ensuring a streamlined and easily navigable structure. Within each module folder, I establish a main page that contains essential module information and is divided into two primary sections: Resources and My Notes. The Resources section compiles all the relevant reference materials, while the My Notes section houses my personal insights and summaries. When crafting my notes, I begin with a [call-out](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/) section with a link to the resources used, ensuring traceability and ease of access. My approach to note-taking emphasizes long-term utility, as I strive to create comprehensive guides that remain understandable and useful even after an extended period of time.

**Motivation:**

The sheer volume of information we receive can be overwhelming at times, which is why I spend a significant amount of time and work organizing my notes. Although this meticulous process may be time-consuming, the long-term benefits of having well-structured, easily navigable notes far outweigh the initial investment. A well-maintained "digital archive" helps to focus on mastering the material rather than relying on short-term memory for exams.

> [!quote] Mortimer J. Adler
> The purpose of learning is growth, and our minds, unlike our bodies, can continue growing as we continue to live.

## Collaboration

If you're interested in collaborating on these notes, please follow the [guidelines](Guidelines.md) to ensure consistency and maintain a high-quality resource.

---

<span class="center-menu">[iyioon](https://www.iyioon.com) </span>
